Create mongodb-xfs.md (#64)
percona-platform/portal-doc: docs/advisors/checks/mongodb-xfs.md

# MongoDB XFS Filesystem type

## Description

> This check returns a warning if DBPATH is not using the XFS filesystem type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This check warns if DBPATH is not using the XFS filesystem type.
```

## Resolution

> As per [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/v6.0/administration/production-notes/#std-label-prod-notes-linux-file-system), when using a WiredTiger storage engine, use of the XFS file system type is strongly recommended for data bearing nodes to avoid performance issues that may occur when using EXT4 with the WiredTiger engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid performance issues when using EXT4 with WiredTiger, [MongoDB Documentation](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/v6.0/administration/production-notes/#std-label-prod-notes-linux-file-system) strongly recommends using the XFS file system type with WiredTiger storage engine for data bearing nodes. 
```

- In general, if you use the XFS file system, use at least version 2.6.25 of the Linux Kernel.
- If you use the EXT4 file system, use at least version 2.6.28 of the Linux Kernel.
- On Red Hat Enterprise Linux and CentOS, use at least version 2.6.18-194 of the Linux Kernel.
- XFS is a high-performance filesystem that is optimized for large files and high-throughput workloads.
- XFS supports the preallocation technique used by MongoDB to efficiently allocate space for new files and data writes.

> - XFS also supports the noatime mount option, which disables the update of access time for files. This can improve performance by reducing the number of disk writes required for file access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- XFS also supports the **noatime** mount option, which disables the update of access time for files. This can improve performance by reducing the number of disk writes required for file access.
```
